Add details for guardrail metrics (#448)
Eppo-exp/eppo-docs: docs/data-management/organizing-metrics/guardrails.md

sidebar_position: 6
---

# Guardrail cutoffs

> A guardrail cutoff refers to a downside threshold that can be set on a metric. When the results for the metric breach this threshold, the metric will display a yellow warning state.

Reviewer: I think the wording here is a bit awkward and confusing. Instead I would reword to something like

The guardrail cutoff metric is yellow until we are fairly certain that the downside risk on this metric is sufficiently small.

> Use a guardrail cutoff where a neutral result is okay but a downside risk should be avoided. They also enable non-inferiority testing when a metric with a guardrail is set as primary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Guardrail cut-off metrics are primarily useful to track metrics that an experiment is not supposed to positively impact, but you want to ensure that there is no negative effect either. A common use case is page load times: few experiments explicitly want to improve page load times, but likely most experiments want to avoid slowing down page load times. Guardrail cut-offs also enable non-inferiority testing when a metric with a guardrail is set as primary.
```

## Create Guardrail metrics

![Create guardrail metric](/img/data-management/metrics/guardrail-metric-setup.png)

1. Navigate to **Metrics**
2. Click to edit a metric
3. In `Advanced Settings` enable `Add a guardrail cutoff`
4. Select the the threshold you would like to set for the cutoff

## Guardrail metrics in experiments

![Guardrail metrics in an experiment](/img/data-management/metrics/guardrail-experiment.png)

A metric with a guardrail cutoff will appear with a `Guardrail label` and a grey boundary indicating the cutoff zone.

When a metric does not breach the cutoff threshold and is not statistically significant positive or negative, it will appear as grey with a check that the cutoff was not breached.

> When a metric breaches the cutoff threshold and is not statistically significant negative, it will appear as yellow with a warning that the cutoff was breached. In this case, you should consider not rolling out the variant given that the Guardrail metric was not above the pre-determined threshold.

Reviewer: I think we should define what "breaches" mean here a bit more carefully. In particular, it's about the lower bound of the confidence interval

> When a metric breaches the cutoff threshold and not statistically significant negative, it will appear as red just as any other statistically significant negative metric would.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a metric breaches the cutoff threshold and is statistically significant negative, it will appear as red just as any other statistically significant negative metric would.
```
